docs/data-sources/remote-mcp-servers.md, before:

# Remote MCP Servers

!!! warning
    Remote MCP servers are in **Tech Preview** stage.

HolmesGPT can integrate with remote MCP servers using SSE mode.
This capability enables HolmesGPT to access external data sources and tools in real time.
This guide provides step-by-step instructions for configuring HolmesGPT to connect with remote MCP servers over SSE.

## Example: MCP server configuration

```yaml-helm-values
mcp_servers:
  mcp_server_1:
    # human-readable description of the mcp server (this is not seen by the AI model - its just for users)
    description: "Remote mcp server"
    url: "http://example.com:8000/sse"

  mcp_server_2:
    description: "MCP server that runs in my cluster"
    url: "http://<service-name>.<namespace>.svc.cluster.local:<service-port>"
    config:
      headers:
        key: "{{ env.my_mcp_server_key }}" # You can use holmes environment variables as headers for the MCP server requests.
```

## Example: Working with Stdio MCP servers

MCP currently supports three transport mechanisms: stdio, Server-Sent Events (SSE), and Streamable HTTP.
At this time, HolmesGPT is compatible only with MCP servers that use SSE.
However, many existing MCP servers—such as Dynatrace MCP—rely exclusively on the stdio transport.
To overcome this incompatibility, tools like Supergateway can act as a bridge by converting stdio-based MCPs into SSE-compatible endpoints.

For this demo we will use:
- [Dynatrace MCP](https://github.com/dynatrace-oss/dynatrace-mcp)
- [Supergateway](https://github.com/supercorp-ai/supergateway) - runs MCP stdio-based servers over SSE

Check out supergatway docs to find out other useful flags.

**See it in action**

<div>
    <a href="https://www.loom.com/share/1b290511b79942c7b1d672a2a4cde105">
      <img style="max-width:300px;" src="https://cdn.loom.com/sessions/thumbnails/1b290511b79942c7b1d672a2a4cde105-ed4eed3f9d70b125-full-play.gif">
    </a>
</div>

### 1. Run stdio MCP as SSE

=== "Docker"

    This command runs the Dynatrace MCP server locally via Docker using Supergateway to wrap it with SSE support.
    Credentials (e.g., API keys) should be stored in a .env file passed to Docker using --env-file.
    you can change `"npx -y @dynatrace-oss/dynatrace-mcp-server@latest /"` to your specific MCP.

    ```shell
    docker run --env-file .env -it --rm -p  8003:8003 supercorp/supergateway \
    --stdio "npx -y @dynatrace-oss/dynatrace-mcp-server@latest /" \
    --port 8003 \
    --logLevel debug
    ```

    Once the container starts, you should see logs similar to:

    ```shell
    [supergateway] Starting...
    [supergateway] Supergateway is supported by Supermachine (hosted MCPs) - https://supermachine.ai
    [supergateway]   - outputTransport: sse
    [supergateway]   - Headers: (none)
    [supergateway]   - port: 8003
    [supergateway]   - stdio: npx -y @dynatrace-oss/dynatrace-mcp-server@latest /
    [supergateway]   - ssePath: /sse
    [supergateway]   - messagePath: /message
    [supergateway]   - CORS: disabled
    [supergateway]   - Health endpoints: (none)
    [supergateway] Listening on port 8003
    [supergateway] SSE endpoint: http://localhost:8003/sse
    [supergateway] POST messages: http://localhost:8003/message
    ```

=== "Kubernetes Pod"

    This will run dynatrace MCP server as a pod in your cluster.
    credentials are passed as env vars.

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: Pod
    metadata:
      name: dynatrace-mcp
      labels:
        app: dynatrace-mcp
    spec:
      containers:
        - name: supergateway
          image: supercorp/supergateway
          env:
            - name: DT_ENVIRONMENT
              value: https://abcd1234.apps.dynatrace.com
            - name: OAUTH_CLIENT_ID
              value: dt0s02.SAMPLE
            - name: OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET
              valueFrom:
                secretKeyRef:
                  name: dynatrace-credentials
                  key: client_secret
          ports:
            - containerPort: 8003
          args:
            - "--stdio"
            - "npx -y @dynatrace-oss/dynatrace-mcp-server@latest /"
            - "--port"
            - "8003"
            - "--logLevel"
            - "debug"
          stdin: true
          tty: true
    ---
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: Service
    metadata:
      name: dynatrace-mcp
    spec:
      selector:
        app: dynatrace-mcp
      ports:
        - protocol: TCP
          port: 8003
          targetPort: 8003
      type: ClusterIP
    ```

### 2. Add MCP server to holmes config

With the MCP server running in SSE mode, we need to let HolmesGPT know of the mcp server.
Use this config according to your use case.

**Configuration:**

=== "Holmes CLI"

    Use a config file, and pass it when running cli commands.

    **custom_toolset.yaml:**

    ```yaml
    mcp_servers:
      mcp_server_1:
        description: "Dynatrace observability platform. Bring real-time observability data directly into your development workflow."
        url: "http://localhost:8003/sse"
    ```

    You can now use Holmes via the CLI with your configured MCP server. For example:

    ```bash
    holmes ask -t custom_toolset.yaml  "Using dynatrace what issues do I have in my cluster?"
    ```

    Alternatively, you can add the `mcp_servers` configurations to ** ~/.holmes/config.yaml**, and run:

    ```bash
    holmes ask "Using dynatrace what issues do I have in my cluster?"
    ```

```yaml-helm-values
mcp_servers:
  mcp_server_1:
    description: "Dynatrace observability platform. Bring real-time observability data directly into your development workflow."
    url: "http://dynatrace-mcp.default.svc.cluster.local:8003"
```

After the deployment is complete, you can use HolmesGPT and ask questions like *Using dynatrace what issues do I have in my cluster?*.

Commit message:

Addding llm_instructions reference to docs (#901)

docs/data-sources/remote-mcp-servers.md, after:

# Remote MCP Servers

!!! warning
    Remote MCP servers are in **Tech Preview** stage.

HolmesGPT can integrate with remote MCP servers using SSE mode.
This capability enables HolmesGPT to access external data sources and tools in real time.
This guide provides step-by-step instructions for configuring HolmesGPT to connect with remote MCP servers over SSE.

## Example: MCP server configuration

```yaml-helm-values
mcp_servers:
  mcp_server_1:
    # human-readable description of the mcp server (this is not seen by the AI model - its just for users)
    description: "Remote mcp server"
    url: "http://example.com:8000/sse"
    llm_instructions: "This server provides general data access capabilities. Use it when you need to retrieve external information or perform remote operations that aren't covered by other toolsets."

  mcp_server_2:
    description: "MCP server that runs in my cluster"
    url: "http://<service-name>.<namespace>.svc.cluster.local:<service-port>"
    llm_instructions: "This is a cluster-local MCP server that provides internal cluster data and operations. Use it for accessing cluster-specific information, internal services, or custom tooling deployed within the Kubernetes environment."
    config:
      headers:
        key: "{{ env.my_mcp_server_key }}" # You can use holmes environment variables as headers for the MCP server requests.
```

## Example: Working with Stdio MCP servers

MCP currently supports three transport mechanisms: stdio, Server-Sent Events (SSE), and Streamable HTTP.
At this time, HolmesGPT is compatible only with MCP servers that use SSE.
However, many existing MCP servers—such as Dynatrace MCP—rely exclusively on the stdio transport.
To overcome this incompatibility, tools like Supergateway can act as a bridge by converting stdio-based MCPs into SSE-compatible endpoints.

For this demo we will use:
- [Dynatrace MCP](https://github.com/dynatrace-oss/dynatrace-mcp)
- [Supergateway](https://github.com/supercorp-ai/supergateway) - runs MCP stdio-based servers over SSE

Check out supergatway docs to find out other useful flags.

**See it in action**

<div>
    <a href="https://www.loom.com/share/1b290511b79942c7b1d672a2a4cde105">
      <img style="max-width:300px;" src="https://cdn.loom.com/sessions/thumbnails/1b290511b79942c7b1d672a2a4cde105-ed4eed3f9d70b125-full-play.gif">
    </a>
</div>

### 1. Run stdio MCP as SSE

=== "Docker"

    This command runs the Dynatrace MCP server locally via Docker using Supergateway to wrap it with SSE support.
    Credentials (e.g., API keys) should be stored in a .env file passed to Docker using --env-file.
    you can change `"npx -y @dynatrace-oss/dynatrace-mcp-server@latest /"` to your specific MCP.

    ```shell
    docker run --env-file .env -it --rm -p  8003:8003 supercorp/supergateway \
    --stdio "npx -y @dynatrace-oss/dynatrace-mcp-server@latest /" \
    --port 8003 \
    --logLevel debug
    ```

    Once the container starts, you should see logs similar to:

    ```shell
    [supergateway] Starting...
    [supergateway] Supergateway is supported by Supermachine (hosted MCPs) - https://supermachine.ai
    [supergateway]   - outputTransport: sse
    [supergateway]   - Headers: (none)
    [supergateway]   - port: 8003
    [supergateway]   - stdio: npx -y @dynatrace-oss/dynatrace-mcp-server@latest /
    [supergateway]   - ssePath: /sse
    [supergateway]   - messagePath: /message
    [supergateway]   - CORS: disabled
    [supergateway]   - Health endpoints: (none)
    [supergateway] Listening on port 8003
    [supergateway] SSE endpoint: http://localhost:8003/sse
    [supergateway] POST messages: http://localhost:8003/message
    ```

=== "Kubernetes Pod"

    This will run dynatrace MCP server as a pod in your cluster.
    credentials are passed as env vars.

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: Pod
    metadata:
      name: dynatrace-mcp
      labels:
        app: dynatrace-mcp
    spec:
      containers:
        - name: supergateway
          image: supercorp/supergateway
          env:
            - name: DT_ENVIRONMENT
              value: https://abcd1234.apps.dynatrace.com
            - name: OAUTH_CLIENT_ID
              value: dt0s02.SAMPLE
            - name: OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET
              valueFrom:
                secretKeyRef:
                  name: dynatrace-credentials
                  key: client_secret
          ports:
            - containerPort: 8003
          args:
            - "--stdio"
            - "npx -y @dynatrace-oss/dynatrace-mcp-server@latest /"
            - "--port"
            - "8003"
            - "--logLevel"
            - "debug"
          stdin: true
          tty: true
    ---
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: Service
    metadata:
      name: dynatrace-mcp
    spec:
      selector:
        app: dynatrace-mcp
      ports:
        - protocol: TCP
          port: 8003
          targetPort: 8003
      type: ClusterIP
    ```

### 2. Add MCP server to holmes config

With the MCP server running in SSE mode, we need to let HolmesGPT know of the mcp server.
Use this config according to your use case.

**Configuration:**

=== "Holmes CLI"

    Use a config file, and pass it when running cli commands.

    **custom_toolset.yaml:**

    ```yaml
    mcp_servers:
      mcp_server_1:
        description: "Dynatrace observability platform. Bring real-time observability data directly into your development workflow."
        url: "http://localhost:8003/sse"
        llm_instructions: "Use Dynatrace to analyze application performance, infrastructure monitoring, and real-time observability data. Query metrics, traces, and logs to identify performance bottlenecks, errors, and system health issues in your applications and infrastructure."
    ```

    You can now use Holmes via the CLI with your configured MCP server. For example:

    ```bash
    holmes ask -t custom_toolset.yaml  "Using dynatrace what issues do I have in my cluster?"
    ```

    Alternatively, you can add the `mcp_servers` configurations to ** ~/.holmes/config.yaml**, and run:

    ```bash
    holmes ask "Using dynatrace what issues do I have in my cluster?"
    ```

```yaml-helm-values
mcp_servers:
  mcp_server_1:
    description: "Dynatrace observability platform. Bring real-time observability data directly into your development workflow."
    url: "http://dynatrace-mcp.default.svc.cluster.local:8003"
    llm_instructions: "Use Dynatrace to analyze application performance, infrastructure monitoring, and real-time observability data. Query metrics, traces, and logs to identify performance bottlenecks, errors, and system health issues in your applications and infrastructure."
```

After the deployment is complete, you can use HolmesGPT and ask questions like *Using dynatrace what issues do I have in my cluster?*.
